docs/development/integration-complete.md, before:

# ✅ Agent-Client Integration Complete

## Summary

Successfully integrated the agent-client (Next.js) with the new Python agent-server (FastAPI + Pydantic AI).

## What Was Built

### 1. API Client Library (`lib/agent-api-client.ts`)
Complete TypeScript client for the Python agent-server API:
- ✅ Health checks
- ✅ Agent execution
- ✅ Run management
- ✅ Workflow execution
- ✅ Tool execution
- ✅ Evaluation runs
- ✅ Model listing
- ✅ Authentication header management

### 2. Weather Demo API Route (`app/api/agent/weather/route.ts`)
Next.js API route that:
- ✅ Gets OAuth 2.0 admin token
- ✅ Checks role-based access (weather/admin/agent scopes)
- ✅ Forwards requests to Python agent-server
- ✅ Propagates Bearer token
- ✅ Returns formatted responses with metadata

### 3. Weather Demo Page (`app/weather/page.tsx`)
Interactive demo showing:
- ✅ Real-time weather queries
- ✅ Role-based access indicator
- ✅ Example queries
- ✅ Response display with metadata
- ✅ Authentication details
- ✅ Architecture flow diagram
- ✅ Technical details section

### 4. Documentation
- ✅ `AGENT-SERVER-INTEGRATION.md` - Complete integration guide
- ✅ `INTEGRATION-COMPLETE.md` - This summary
- ✅ Updated `env.example` with agent API URL

### 5. UI Updates
- ✅ Added "Weather Demo" button to admin page
- ✅ Navigation link to `/weather` page

## Key Features Demonstrated

### 🔐 Authentication & Authorization
```
Browser → Next.js → OAuth Service → Agent Server
         ↓
    Get admin token
         ↓
    Check scopes (weather/admin/agent)
         ↓
    Forward with Bearer token
```

### 🤖 Agent Execution
```
User Query → Next.js API → Python Agent Server
                              ↓
                         LiteLLM (research model)
                              ↓
                         Tool Calling Decision
                              ↓
                         Weather Tool
                              ↓
                         Open-Meteo API
                              ↓
                         Format Response
                              ↓
                         Return to User
```

### 🎯 Role-Based Access Control
- Checks for `weather.*`, `admin.*`, or `agent.*` scopes
- Returns 403 Forbidden if access denied
- Shows required scopes in error message
- Displays user's current scopes in response

## Testing

### Local Testing
```bash
cd /Users/wessonnenreich/Code/sonnenreich/agent-client
npm install
npm run dev
# Visit http://localhost:3000/weather
```

### Example Queries
1. "What is the weather in London?"
2. "Should I bring an umbrella in Tokyo today?"
3. "What's the weather like in San Francisco?"
4. "Is it raining in Paris right now?"

### Expected Response
```json
{
  "response": "The current weather in London is...",
  "success": true,
  "clientId": "admin-ui-client",
  "scopes": ["admin.read", "admin.write", "agent.execute"]
}
```

## Deployment

### Busibox Deployment
```bash
cd /path/to/busibox/provision/ansible
make deploy-agent-client
```

### Environment Variables (Ansible Vault)
```yaml
secrets:
  agent-client:
    admin_client_id: "admin-ui-client"
    admin_client_secret: "{{ vault_admin_client_secret }}"
    agent_api_url: "http://10.96.201.202:4111"
```

## Files Created/Modified

### New Files
1. `lib/agent-api-client.ts` - API client library
2. `app/api/agent/weather/route.ts` - Weather API route
3. `app/weather/page.tsx` - Weather demo page
4. `AGENT-SERVER-INTEGRATION.md` - Integration documentation
5. `INTEGRATION-COMPLETE.md` - This file

### Modified Files
1. `env.example` - Added `NEXT_PUBLIC_AGENT_API_URL`
2. `app/admin/page.tsx` - Added Weather Demo button

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         Browser                              │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │           Weather Demo Page (/weather)               │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │ POST /api/agent/weather
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   Next.js (agent-client)                     │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │         API Route: /api/agent/weather                │   │
│  │  1. Get admin token (OAuth 2.0)                      │   │
│  │  2. Check scopes (weather/admin/agent)               │   │
│  │  3. Forward with Bearer token                        │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │ Bearer token
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│            Python Agent Server (agent-lxc:4111)              │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │         FastAPI + Pydantic AI                        │   │
│  │  1. Validate JWT token (future)                      │   │
│  │  2. Execute weather agent                            │   │
│  │  3. Call LiteLLM                                     │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │ Model: research (qwen3-30b)
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              LiteLLM (litellm-lxc:4000)                      │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │         Model Router & Proxy                         │   │
│  │  Routes to: qwen3-30b (vLLM)                         │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │ Tool calling decision
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Weather Tool (Python)                     │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │         get_weather(location: str)                   │   │
│  │  Calls Open-Meteo API                                │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │ Real weather data
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   Open-Meteo API                             │
│         https://api.open-meteo.com                           │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Security Features

### 1. OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials Flow
- Admin client obtains JWT token
- Token includes client_id and scopes
- Token forwarded to agent-server

### 2. Scope-Based Authorization
- Checks for required scopes before execution
- Returns 403 if access denied
- Displays required vs. actual scopes

### 3. Token Propagation
- Bearer token forwarded to agent-server
- Agent-server can validate token (currently disabled for testing)
- Supports multi-service authentication

### 4. Secure Credential Management
- Credentials stored in Ansible vault
- Environment variables injected at runtime
- No secrets in code or git

## Next Steps

### 1. Enable Authentication on Agent Server
```python
# app/api/agents.py - Uncomment this line:
principal: Principal = Depends(get_principal)
```

### 2. Add More Agent Demos
- Document search agent
- RAG query agent
- Code generation agent
- Data analysis agent

### 3. Implement Streaming
```typescript
const eventSource = streamRunUpdates(runId, token);
eventSource.onmessage = (event) => {
  // Handle real-time updates
};
```

### 4. Add Run History
- Display past agent runs
- Show execution status
- View input/output
- Error messages

### 5. Create Agent Builder UI
- Visual agent configuration
- Tool and workflow assignment
- Scope management
- Testing interface

## Success Metrics

✅ **Integration Working**
- Agent-client communicates with Python agent-server
- Authentication tokens properly propagated
- Role-based access control functional
- Weather demo working end-to-end

✅ **Code Quality**
- TypeScript types for all API calls
- Error handling throughout
- Documentation complete
- Environment configuration clear

✅ **User Experience**
- Interactive demo page
- Clear error messages
- Example queries provided
- Technical details displayed

✅ **Production Ready**
- Ansible deployment configured
- Secure credential management
- Health checks implemented
- Logging in place

## Conclusion

The agent-client is now successfully integrated with the Python agent-server, demonstrating:

1. **OAuth 2.0 authentication** with token propagation
2. **Role-based access control** with scope checking
3. **Pydantic AI + LiteLLM** integration
4. **Tool calling** with external APIs
5. **Real-time agent interaction**

The weather demo serves as a template for building more sophisticated agent interactions, and the API client library provides a foundation for all future agent-server integrations.

**Status: PRODUCTION READY** ✅

Commit message:

refactor: update references from agent-client to agent-manager
- Changed all instances of "agent-client" to "agent-manager" across documentation and code files to reflect the new application structure.
- Updated deployment commands and environment variable references to align with the agent-manager terminology.
- Enhanced clarity in documentation regarding the agent-manager's role and functionality.

These changes ensure consistency in naming conventions and improve the overall organization of the project documentation.

docs/development/integration-complete.md, after:

# ✅ Agent-Client Integration Complete

## Summary

Successfully integrated the agent-manager (Next.js) with the new Python agent-server (FastAPI + Pydantic AI).

## What Was Built

### 1. API Client Library (`lib/agent-api-client.ts`)
Complete TypeScript client for the Python agent-server API:
- ✅ Health checks
- ✅ Agent execution
- ✅ Run management
- ✅ Workflow execution
- ✅ Tool execution
- ✅ Evaluation runs
- ✅ Model listing
- ✅ Authentication header management

### 2. Weather Demo API Route (`app/api/agent/weather/route.ts`)
Next.js API route that:
- ✅ Gets OAuth 2.0 admin token
- ✅ Checks role-based access (weather/admin/agent scopes)
- ✅ Forwards requests to Python agent-server
- ✅ Propagates Bearer token
- ✅ Returns formatted responses with metadata

### 3. Weather Demo Page (`app/weather/page.tsx`)
Interactive demo showing:
- ✅ Real-time weather queries
- ✅ Role-based access indicator
- ✅ Example queries
- ✅ Response display with metadata
- ✅ Authentication details
- ✅ Architecture flow diagram
- ✅ Technical details section

### 4. Documentation
- ✅ `AGENT-SERVER-INTEGRATION.md` - Complete integration guide
- ✅ `INTEGRATION-COMPLETE.md` - This summary
- ✅ Updated `env.example` with agent API URL

### 5. UI Updates
- ✅ Added "Weather Demo" button to admin page
- ✅ Navigation link to `/weather` page

## Key Features Demonstrated

### 🔐 Authentication & Authorization
```
Browser → Next.js → OAuth Service → Agent Server
         ↓
    Get admin token
         ↓
    Check scopes (weather/admin/agent)
         ↓
    Forward with Bearer token
```

### 🤖 Agent Execution
```
User Query → Next.js API → Python Agent Server
                              ↓
                         LiteLLM (research model)
                              ↓
                         Tool Calling Decision
                              ↓
                         Weather Tool
                              ↓
                         Open-Meteo API
                              ↓
                         Format Response
                              ↓
                         Return to User
```

### 🎯 Role-Based Access Control
- Checks for `weather.*`, `admin.*`, or `agent.*` scopes
- Returns 403 Forbidden if access denied
- Shows required scopes in error message
- Displays user's current scopes in response

## Testing

### Local Testing
```bash
cd /Users/wessonnenreich/Code/sonnenreich/agent-manager
npm install
npm run dev
# Visit http://localhost:3000/weather
```

### Example Queries
1. "What is the weather in London?"
2. "Should I bring an umbrella in Tokyo today?"
3. "What's the weather like in San Francisco?"
4. "Is it raining in Paris right now?"

### Expected Response
```json
{
  "response": "The current weather in London is...",
  "success": true,
  "clientId": "admin-ui-client",
  "scopes": ["admin.read", "admin.write", "agent.execute"]
}
```

## Deployment

### Busibox Deployment
```bash
cd /path/to/busibox/provision/ansible
make deploy-agent-manager
```

### Environment Variables (Ansible Vault)
```yaml
secrets:
  agent-manager:
    admin_client_id: "admin-ui-client"
    admin_client_secret: "{{ vault_admin_client_secret }}"
    agent_api_url: "http://10.96.201.202:4111"
```

## Files Created/Modified

### New Files
1. `lib/agent-api-client.ts` - API client library
2. `app/api/agent/weather/route.ts` - Weather API route
3. `app/weather/page.tsx` - Weather demo page
4. `AGENT-SERVER-INTEGRATION.md` - Integration documentation
5. `INTEGRATION-COMPLETE.md` - This file

### Modified Files
1. `env.example` - Added `NEXT_PUBLIC_AGENT_API_URL`
2. `app/admin/page.tsx` - Added Weather Demo button

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         Browser                              │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │           Weather Demo Page (/weather)               │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │ POST /api/agent/weather
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   Next.js (agent-manager)                     │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │         API Route: /api/agent/weather                │   │
│  │  1. Get admin token (OAuth 2.0)                      │   │
│  │  2. Check scopes (weather/admin/agent)               │   │
│  │  3. Forward with Bearer token                        │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │ Bearer token
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│            Python Agent Server (agent-lxc:4111)              │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │         FastAPI + Pydantic AI                        │   │
│  │  1. Validate JWT token (future)                      │   │
│  │  2. Execute weather agent                            │   │
│  │  3. Call LiteLLM                                     │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │ Model: research (qwen3-30b)
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              LiteLLM (litellm-lxc:4000)                      │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │         Model Router & Proxy                         │   │
│  │  Routes to: qwen3-30b (vLLM)                         │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │ Tool calling decision
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Weather Tool (Python)                     │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │         get_weather(location: str)                   │   │
│  │  Calls Open-Meteo API                                │   │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘   │
└────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                         │ Real weather data
                         ↓
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   Open-Meteo API                             │
│         https://api.open-meteo.com                           │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Security Features

### 1. OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials Flow
- Admin client obtains JWT token
- Token includes client_id and scopes
- Token forwarded to agent-server

### 2. Scope-Based Authorization
- Checks for required scopes before execution
- Returns 403 if access denied
- Displays required vs. actual scopes

### 3. Token Propagation
- Bearer token forwarded to agent-server
- Agent-server can validate token (currently disabled for testing)
- Supports multi-service authentication

### 4. Secure Credential Management
- Credentials stored in Ansible vault
- Environment variables injected at runtime
- No secrets in code or git

## Next Steps

### 1. Enable Authentication on Agent Server
```python
# app/api/agents.py - Uncomment this line:
principal: Principal = Depends(get_principal)
```

### 2. Add More Agent Demos
- Document search agent
- RAG query agent
- Code generation agent
- Data analysis agent

### 3. Implement Streaming
```typescript
const eventSource = streamRunUpdates(runId, token);
eventSource.onmessage = (event) => {
  // Handle real-time updates
};
```

### 4. Add Run History
- Display past agent runs
- Show execution status
- View input/output
- Error messages

### 5. Create Agent Builder UI
- Visual agent configuration
- Tool and workflow assignment
- Scope management
- Testing interface

## Success Metrics

✅ **Integration Working**
- Agent-client communicates with Python agent-server
- Authentication tokens properly propagated
- Role-based access control functional
- Weather demo working end-to-end

✅ **Code Quality**
- TypeScript types for all API calls
- Error handling throughout
- Documentation complete
- Environment configuration clear

✅ **User Experience**
- Interactive demo page
- Clear error messages
- Example queries provided
- Technical details displayed

✅ **Production Ready**
- Ansible deployment configured
- Secure credential management
- Health checks implemented
- Logging in place

## Conclusion

The agent-manager is now successfully integrated with the Python agent-server, demonstrating:

1. **OAuth 2.0 authentication** with token propagation
2. **Role-based access control** with scope checking
3. **Pydantic AI + LiteLLM** integration
4. **Tool calling** with external APIs
5. **Real-time agent interaction**

The weather demo serves as a template for building more sophisticated agent interactions, and the API client library provides a foundation for all future agent-server integrations.

**Status: PRODUCTION READY** ✅
